**Author**: u/HSeldon2020

**Posted on**: 2021-12-09

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/rc5bh0/10_things_i_wish_i_knew_when_getting_started/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/rc5bh0/10_things_i_wish_i_knew_when_getting_started/)

\*\*\*\*Updated and Reposted for the Wiki\*\*\*\*

Every weekend I try to post something that covers the questions I get throughout the week from many of you. Previously I posted general tips on Day Trading, my personal story on getting started, Day Trading as a career, and various strategies. I want to thank you all for the amazing messages - knowing these posts are helping some of you in your journey through this difficult path is the reason I stay in this community. 

*So here are the things I wish I knew (in no particular order) and understood five years ago when I got started:*

**1) Position Sizing -** Many of the issues traders have can be attributed to trading with too large of a position. It is very hard to make your decisions based purely on the technical analysis when you are watching your account dwindle down. I've also seen traders get out of a trade simply because they needed the buying power for a "better trade". Ideally you should be trading *as if* you have 1 share. **In trading - the more your emotions play a role in your decisions, the worse the outcome will be.** Obviously you want to make money, so I am not suggesting to size your trades to where they don't matter, but you also need to size them to where you aren't trading out of fear.

To help with this, try to go a week and trade very small position sizes - I am talking 1 contract on options, or only a few shares. At the end of the week look at your win and profit/loss percentages and compare them to your previous week. Chances are you will see a huge improvement.

**2) Avoid FOMO -** This one is a killer. FOMO has been the death of many an account. We've all been there - you are in some good trades, and then your chat room or message board starts to explode with something like - CLOV! CLOV is goinnnnng! OMG - CLOV is non-stop! So what do you do? You look at CLOV, and sure enough, the damn thing is heading to the moon as they say. You start seeing people post their profits on CLOV, and you can't take it anymore, you say to yourself, "This is the way." and you close some positions that are working, but now they look painfully slow to you. You jump in CLOV. And what happens? CLOV pulls back and the trade you were in begins to shoot up. Damn it! Now you exit CLOV and jump back into the trade you were originally in. And what happens? CLOV starts to go again and your original trade stalls. At this point you want to throw the monitor across the room, and you begin to drink, heavily. So here's a simply solution - stop with the FOMO. If the trade looks good, take it, but not because you see everyone else losing their minds over it.

**3) When to Exit A Trade -** This is definitely one of the most asked questions from traders. Many new traders take profit too quickly and let losers run too long. Here is the most important piece of advice I can you: **Trade the Technicals, Not The P&L.** This is a mindset issue. You are exiting trades based on your loss or your gain, and not on the charts. *I exit a trade when the conditions I entered the trade no longer apply.* Whether it is a reversal in the HA candles, the loss or gain of Relative Strength/Weakness against the market (note - this is NOT RSI or Beta), VWAP or some form of support/resistance, etc. I do not make my decision based on how much I am down or up on the trade. It may also surprise you to know that just about every professional Day Trader I know does not use Hard Stops, they use Mental Stops. I know you see Hard Stops taught everywhere and in all the videos, and I am sure some of you will argue to the death how necessary they are - I am just telling you that most traders that do this for a living do not use them. It is just really hard to teach Mental Stops, and thus, you see Hard Stops in the videos and books. In reality your exit changes based on the market and the price action, and thus flexibility is needed. But, it takes a lot of experience to use mental stops (took me three years to transition over and when I did my profit % went up dramatically); however, if you aren't at that point yet, I encourage you to continue using regular stops until you are ready to switch.

**4) Journal -** Whether you are using software to do it or manually entering your trades in a spreadsheet, it is very important to keep track of everything. You need to be able to analyze what types of trades you do well in and which ones you do not. Are there times of the day you are stronger and why? Do you tend to make money day trading stocks but lose on options? The answers to all of these questions give you important insight into how to improve your trading. When I started doing this I finally began to identify areas that I was weak and needed to work on to improve.

**5) Buy High - Sell Higher** \- We are all taught *Buy Low - Sell High.*  In theory this is correct, and there are plenty of times when buying the dip makes sense.  The problem is that this mantra gets so drilled into our heads we can't think of any other way to trade.  When we see a stock that has strong bullish momentum, up 4% on the day, and up 8% over the past week - we think, "It is over-extended", maybe...but here's the thing, if you buy *into the trend*, and buy *strength*, you will be part of the trend.  And when trading, being part of the trend is exactly where you want to be.

**6) Different types of Day Trades** \- There are different types of Day Trades, and you should learn each and know what you are comfortable with using. When I began I lumped all stocks that would pop up on scanners into the same category, which was a huge mistake.

*A) Scalping -* Scalping has many definitions, for the purposes of this post it is defined as taking advantage of quick price changes to make a profit off a minor move. It can be done with larger stocks, but usually (since it involves a high position size) it is with stocks under $10. These trades do not last long - a few minutes typically and you are taking profit off a very minor change. These trades are also very dangerous, as due to the volatility inherent in the set-up the stock can drop quite fast, leaving you stuck or stopped out.

*B) Momentum Trading -* Similar to scalping, but a bit more involved. Many times these types of trades are on morning gappers, and you are using various reads on the candlestick patterns to capitalize on strong moves. It differs from scalping as sometimes these trades can result in larger gains if you catch a really strong runner. They can also be dangerous as the stops (whether hard or mental) tend to be rather wide in order to give the stock room (on scalps the stops are not wide), but also can result in a significant loss. You're paying particular attention to volume in these trades.

*C) Technical Based -* Best explained with an example - on Thursday I noticed that CAT was below it's SMA 50, and Relatively Weak to SPY (when SPY went up on the 5 minutes charts, CAT continued down), so I shorted the stock around 232.50 and was looking to see if it broke horizontal support at 232, which it did. At that point I watched to make sure it stayed Relatively Weak to the market, and rode it down towards it's next level of support at around 226. I exited the trade at the end of the day making around $5.70 a share on the short. I could have held it overnight given the weakness on the daily chart, but since I did not know what the market would be on Friday I closed the trade (turns out it would have continued to print money for me). This is a typical Day Trade and represents the majority of the trades I do. Using technical analysis, scanners and a strategy, I identify the stock I want to trade and come up with various potential exits. I also never do a trade on a stock using this method that doesn't have a strong daily chart. Why? Because if the market or stock suddenly turns against me, but doesn't break support/resistance and the reasoning for the trade is still intact, I am able to hold it based on the daily chart. *A good Day Trader is also a good Swing Trader.*

*D) Option Trading -* There are various kinds of option trades, too many to post here, but I will cover two basic ones for Day Trading:

Call/Put - very straightforward, you are day trading calls and puts. You should always try to use calls/puts that are at least 1-2 weeks out from expiration and have a delta of .7 or higher. Otherwise you are wasting money on premium with these plays. Yes, I know these options are more expensive, but they are also worth it. Not only do you get the benefit of the option providing more leverage with the higher delta, but you also do not get hit with as much time decay, even if it is only during a single day.

Spreads - despite popular belief you can day trade spreads. An example would be Call Debit Spreads that expire that week are a very secure way to do it. On stocks that have huge gains for the day, (i.e. ZM is up $17), you can do an ATM call debit spread, and try to get a debit that is less than 50% of the strike distance (e.g. if you do a 220/225 spread, you want to pay less than 2.50 in a debit). You then immediately put in an order to buy it back for a 10% profit on a Monday/Tuesday, 20% on Wednesday, 25-30% on Thursday and 40-50% on Friday.

I also have a post on Friday lotto trades, which are quite fun to do, I urge you to check it out.

*Know the different types of Day Trades. Your scans should be different depending on the type of trade you want.*

**7) Resources** \- By the far, the number one question I get asked is for recommendations on books/videos/communities/etc. It is easy to get overwhelmed with the various choices out there. When I started I was stupid and bought all the books I could, paid for courses, joined communities - basically my dumbass wasted a lot of time and money. Hell the free courses on Ameritrade alone were better than half the crap I bought. Anyway, think of those resources like this:

*A) Selling You Something -* There are plenty of books and videos that have one goal in mind, to try to sell you something. The problem is that many of them are either scams or well-meaning, but not worth it. I am not suggesting you dismiss them all, but there is an easy way to tell which is which - *Anything that suggests you can get rich quickly is a scam. Period.* These videos usually features someone in a sports car (usually a Lambo for some reason), and they highlight how you can turn a little bit of money into millions. Or how one "easy to use method" is all you need to make money. Bullshit.

If you are going to pay for some course, community, or service - make sure it; acknowledges how difficult Day Trading is and how long it really takes to learn, teaches a well-rounded method that is sustainable and focused on consistent smaller wins, features a chat room that has a core group of professional traders, and/or a platform that contains useful scanners.

*B) Teaching You Something -* These are more like textbooks and instructional videos. Some are very dry but informative, while others are easier to digest but perhaps not as in-depth.

What you want is something that teaches you; Candlesticks and their patterns, Indicators and their uses, Options (with the Greeks explained), Spreads and how/when to use them, and Scanners settings.

It difficult to recommend any particular video or book as a lot depends on your personal style of learning, but it is important to know what type or resource you are looking at (A or B) and whether it offers what you need.

**8) "It Can't Go Any Higher/Lower..." -** Yeah it can. Stop trying to predict tops and bottoms. Sure if there is a technical reason you believe it won't continue to increase or drop, that is one thing, but simply because a stock is already down/up a significant amount does not mean there isn't plenty of gas left in that tank. In fact, there usually is, follow the charts not your gut.  *Counter-trend trading is one of the top reasons new traders lose money*

**9) You Are Not An Economist -** I am a former professor of Sociology, so I thought I knew shit. Yeah, I didn't know shit. Not even the Economists know shit. Remember back in January how they were saying if the Dems won the Senate the market would crash? Remember how it went up? A lot of people got burned on that. I see traders all the time make comments like, "SPY is *due* to drop." Or - "Inflation fears, over-valued market - there is a crash coming." And so you begin to have a market-bias, which impacts your trades, even your day trades. Trade what is right in front of you.

**10) Don't Trade What You Don't Know -** Finally, this sub is constantly filled with people asking questions about a trade they are currently in, whether it is an option or stock trade. You can tell from their questions that they jumped into a trade without having the slightest clue what they were doing. This is a pretty simple concept here - if you don't know it, don't trade it. If the extent of your option knowledge is - Calls means you think it is going up and Puts mean you think it is going down - don't trade options. You would think this is common sense, but sadly it isn't very common at all.

Best, H.S.