**Author**: u/HSeldon2020

**Posted on**: 2021-12-03

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/r7l27g/9095_of_day_traders_do_not_lose_money_and_9_other/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/r7l27g/9095_of_day_traders_do_not_lose_money_and_9_other/)

EDIT - this was written roughly a year ago and originally posted in r/daytrading so read it in that context. 

I am glad so many of you have found my posts helpful in the past. Here are some thoughts on how to make a better forum here for everyone. These aren't "mod" suggestions, but rather things all of us can do to make this a better resource for Day Trading.

**1) Yes, Day Trading is Real.** If you don't think Day Trading & Technical Analysis is real, believe it is luck or a way suckers lose money - then why are you on a forum for Day Trading? Whether you believe it or not, many people are successful Day Traders, making it their career. You have every right to be wrong, but going from post to post telling people that Day Trading is bullshit on a forum dedicated to Day Trading just wastes everyone's time.

**2) Stop** **Saying 90-95% of Day Traders Lose Money**. Do you know where those statistics come from? Studies done by places like the Brazilian Stock Exchange, which is a highly manipulated market, using a very small sample size. Or the ESMA (European Securities and Market Authority) which requires brokers to report all account info - which means that if you put in a little bit of money, tried Day Trading once and lost, and then closed the account - this gets counted as a "losing Day Trader". Does this mean that most people make money Day Trading? No, of course not. Like I always say, this shit is hard. But most either; give up early because they were never really serious, try some scam method and lose, or think it is going to be easy so they drop it when they find out it isn't. What percent of Day Traders that put in the work/effort wind up losing money? No idea, nobody has done that study - but it certainly isn't anywhere near 90-95%.

**3) Not Everyone is a Shill.** I get the cynicism, I do. Many people are trying to push scams on those desperate for help. It is a shitty thing to do. But it has gotten to the point where experienced traders can't even recommend something that has worked for them. If someone suggests a good accountant or lawyer to you, does it mean they work for those firms? No, it just means that they have tried them and liked them. It should be pretty easy to tell the difference. However, since it isn't always clear, I recommend that anyone suggesting a service simply put the following - "*I in no way - work for, own, or otherwise financially benefit from this resource I am recommending.*" (oh and btw - I in no way - work for, own, or otherwise financially benefit from any resource I recommend) This may seem like a small point, but I know a lot of people are reluctant to suggest services publicly as they generally get attacked for being a "shill" or banned from mods, which is a shame because the one thing new traders really need are quality resources.

**4) You're Not A Guru.** If you started trading anytime after March of 2020, your experience is valuable and your story of the Day Trading journey you took can certainly help others BUT **you are not an expert.** Stop acting like one. There is a lot of quality advice you can give people - what worked for you, what didn't - but you're not a guru. Until you are consistently profitable, month after month, and actually pay your bills with your Day Trading income, you shouldn't be trying to teach others how to make a living Day Trading.

**5) Meme vs. Day Trading.** This whole Meme stock division is ridiculous. Why? Because this is Day Trading. The distinction is mutually exclusive. If people want to risk their money buying and HODL GME or AMC, fine - let them. I don't criticize people who go to a casino (I would be a hypocrite if I did), so if you would rather buy a bunch of shares of GME and hold them rather than play blackjack, who am I to say you shouldn't? A discussion on whether or not Meme stocks follow the rules of technical analysis and qualify for Day Trading is one worth having (I believe they are more difficult to Day Trade, but others do it quite well). There should be no antagonism between Meme traders and Day Traders. EDIT: Some Meme traders put in an extraordinary amount of DD and effort into their picks / decisions. My over-generalization of all Meme traders as “gambling” is incorrect. While many *are* gambling, some are very astute investors.

**6) Just Google It -** New Traders - stop asking questions that are a Google search away. If you ask any experienced Day Trader they will tell you - you can spot the person that is going to be successful at this and those who aren't, simply by the questions they ask in the beginning. Day Trading is hard work - it takes years to get good at it, putting in 60+ hour weeks of work, constant studying and research. It is definitely not a field that is kind to people who are mentally lazy. It is one thing to ask an experienced trader how useful they find EMA's, it is another thing entirely to ask them what an EMA means. Look it up. If you still don't understand it then ask someone, but put in some effort.

**7) This is Not the Way.** Your way is not the only way to trade. Some people make most of their money in the first hour of trading using momentum methods, while others like less volatility that comes from mid-day trading. Some use options and other stocks, and still others, spreads. Showing people how your method works for you is great, but telling people it is *the only way* to trade is not.

**8) You Know What Day Trading Is, Right?** This one should be obvious but sadly, it isn't. If you are on a forum for Day Trading, try to understand what Day Trading actually is first? We usually don't hold stocks for more than a few hours, sometimes less than a few minutes (sometimes less than a minute). It doesn't matter if this is a bull market or a bear market, every day is a different market for a Day Trader. We don't use Fundamentals as it doesn't matter what the long term growth prospects of a stock is to us. Of course many of us also swing trade and some of us are investors as well, but this forum is about Day Trading. This is about going long on NVDA Friday morning only to be shorting it in the last hour of trading.

**9) Nobody Owes You Anything.** Stop asking people for proof. Either their advice is good or it isn't, either take it or don't. If someone on here posts that they are a successful Day Trader and give good advice, I am going to appreciate what they said, if they give bad advice, I am going to argue what they said. Trading forums on Reddit is filled with photoshopped account statements showing huge gains or significant losses. Fortunately, I have gotten to know some of you and now trade with you everyday, which, in the end, is the only way to ever prove you are what you say. But the never ending cycle of posting, being asked to provide proof, giving a picture of your account statement, being told it is fake, and then doing it all again on the next post is ridiculous. Also, nobody owes you a damn thing. You're not owed proof just as the poster is not owed your belief. Either the post is of quality and useful or it isn't. If you don't find it useful, then move on or argue it. If you do, than it doesn't matter.

**10) It is the Method not the Amount.** I get it. You want to know if you can actually live off Day Trading. Fine - yes, you can. Now stop asking people how much money they made/make. To begin with, it is tacky. Secondly, they can easily lie (also see #9 above). Also, it doesn't matter. What does matter is; their win percentage, their profit ratio, their risk/reward, and their money management (i.e. % of portfolio on any one trade). The magnitude of their wins/losses is dependent on their own financial circumstances and should have no bearing on their advice. Someone with $5K could have a great trading method and make a few hundred dollars a month, while someone with $500K could have shitty method and lose $10K a month. The method matters, not the amount.

If everyone followed these ten rules, this forum would be an amazing place for traders to learn, exchange ideas and improve their Day Trading. I hope some of these resonated with you and together we can make this community a great place for everyone.