**Author**: u/HSeldon2020

**Posted on**: 2021-06-06

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/Daytrading/comments/ntsdd5/day_trading_for_a_living/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Daytrading/comments/ntsdd5/day_trading_for_a_living/)

For some time now I could tell there was a huge disconnect between the reality of Day Trading for a living and what I would read here on Reddit.  I am here for one reason - to help people.  Anyone who has read my post on how I began can see that I know how difficult this journey can be for others. Life is difficult enough as it is, so if I can save someone time, money and frustration, I am happy to do it.

Throughout my time here I have seen many traders prosper, some of which I now trade with everyday.   There has been an incredible amount of support and amazing stories I've heard from many of you and I appreciate them all.  

Still, I also noticed that almost every post is also met with an incredible amount of vitriol and cynicism.  I would always chalk up those response to people who have tried their hand at Day Trading and failed.  To some extent I am sure that is true.  But lately, reading through some comments on recent posts I have realized that something else is going on here.  Not only on this sub, but on most subs dedicated to trading.

First, let's back up a bit to Day Trading for a Living.  For us, Day Trading is a career.  Just like any other career, except with this one you get the freedom of being your own boss, and the security of knowing that as long as you have an internet connection you have a source of income.  And to be secure in that you better know how to trade in a down market as well as a surging one.  Many of us have had successful careers before this, some of us have only done this and nothing else, but either way I can confidently speak for others who do this for a living when  I say - there is nothing else we would rather do.  It is an amazing job, truly.  It is also one of the hardest skills to learn (but that was another post).  **Still - to us - it is a job.**  

There are traders that make over $50k a week and have for a long time, and there are traders that are perfectly happy making $2K a week, and everyone in-between.   The notion of being consistently profitable is a given, not a question.  And we don't care *how* profitable you are, as long as you make a living with it.  In fact, it is in bad taste to ask a trader how much they make, although I do get why new traders ask all the time - they want to see if the potential reward is real and worth it. 

So when we say we Day Trade for a living and are consistently profitable, it isn't bragging, it is just what we do.  Just like any other profession.  Some of us trade alone, but most of us trade with others in one community or another, and share trade ideas, analyze trades at the end of the day and help each other prep for tomorrow's action.  I am on the west coast (which does suck a bit), so I am up around 5:30am and monitoring the pre-market action.  At 6:30 to 7am I typically just watch the market, and rarely make a trade in the first 30 minutes (although I do know this is where momentum traders find many of their best trades, it is just not how I like to trade, although there are always exceptions).  From 7am to 1pm, I trade consistently throughout the day.  From 1pm to 3pm I am reviewing the trades from that day with other traders - especially the trades that didn't work.  And then finally from 3pm to 5pm I am prepping for tomorrow.

And then I come on here, and it is very clear that there exists two worlds of trading.  In this world on Reddit, many of the traders are new - most likely drawn into trading because of some combination of the pandemic keeping them at home and the allure of meme stocks which have gotten a lot of attention.  And yes, you also have a lot of people who have tried trading and failed, but still remain interested enough to read these subs.  What results is a tremendous amount of cynicism - the notion that Day Trading is anything but pure luck is scoffed at, any success is met with demands of proof, and every piece of advice is criticized for some reason or another.  *This isn't to say there also aren't some brilliant criticisms that I've read here, and justifiable cynicism, there is - and thank god there are, otherwise these subs would be intolerable.*

Also what many here don't seem to get is that asking a successful Day Trader to show proof after every successful trade or trades is like asking a lawyer to constantly send photos of her Law Degree every time she says she is a lawyer.   And yes, I do compare the two.  I used to be a Professor of Sociology, I went through graduate school, I know what it is like to write and defend a dissertation and be on the tenure track at a university, and I can tell you now without hesitation that learning/mastering Day Trading is harder.  No contest.  Btw, imagine being a lawyer and coming on to a sub about being a lawyer, and reading comments from people who aren't even lawyers themselves that say, "There is no way to actually practice the law, it's impossible because it is all subjective.  You're full of shit.  Let me see your last winning case file!"  Yeah, that how many of us feel when we come on here.  It is pure insanity to see people every day say what you do for a living doesn't and can't exist.  Especially when you've been doing it for many years.

Obviously there are a lot of people on here that are full of shit, but one look at their profile and posting history should make it fairly easy to tell who is and who isn't.  Overall though, just look at the advice given - either it makes sense or it doesn't, either take it or don't.  Spending your time attacking the person giving it is pointless, criticize the post, not the poster.

Still when I suggest a trade concept that I have used thousands of times over many years, and have a well-defined win rate with that concept, only to see a bunch of responses that say, "This will never work and here's why...." I try to answer each and every one of those comments as patiently as possible, but yes, sometimes the urge to say, "WTF are you talking about?!?!?!" is a bit hard to resist.  

For all people who are new to trading, or have dabbled and recently got more interested in it, please know that a majority of what you see here (and especially on YouTube) is *NOT* Day Trading.  Day Trading is not just momentum trading in the first hour, it isn't just on stocks under $10, and it isn't luck - it involves a vast number of strategies that involves going long, shorting, options, option spreads, and yes, swing trading as well.  ***Our goal is to consistently make a profit, which means consistently hitting singles.***  We won't ignore the home run, but it isn't what we set out to do with each trade.  Our lives and the lives of our families depend on us reaching a minimum $ number every month.  

Our trades can last anywhere from 15 seconds to 5 days, we know when to enter and exit, and what method to use.   *Anyone can be profitable on any given day, but to do this for a living you need to be consistently profitable.* The methods used to do that often seem to conflict with the mentality of people who read/post on these boards. Their goal seems to be to try to make as much money as possible, despite the increased risk.  I urged you to ignore those that do not pay their bills with Day Trading and listen to those that do.  *If you check my profile, I have posts on how to get started, tips, strategies, and personal reflections - if you are interested I hope you give them a read.*

But mainly you should realize that there is an entire world out there of Day Traders.  From what I can tell the average successful Day Trader took 2 to 3 years to get to the point where they can confidently make a living doing it.  Most have one skill they excel at (I trade with some traders that are incredible scalpers, others who are masters at day trading options, others that kill it using option spreads, traders that crush the futures market, as well as amazing short-sellers) but despite their specialty, all of them are able to trade across various strategies and in bull or bear markets (yes I know we are in a 10+ year bull market).   Some use stop-losses (primarily momentum traders), most do not and use mental stops on their trades to stay flexible with a shifting market.  Our "watchlist" changes every 5 to 30 minutes, and we trade everything from SNDL to AMZN.  One thing we all have in common is we **never look at our P&L while in a trade.**  Yes, we have our targets.  But when we exit a trade it is based on the price action, not the P&L.  

So be careful to not believe that what you read here is the actual world of Day Trading, it is not - but that world does exist.  I hope to see some of you in it one day, because trust me, it's much nicer than this one.