**Author**: u/OptionStalker

**Posted on**: 2023-03-18

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/11usz90/how_to_size_your_positions/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/11usz90/how_to_size_your_positions/)

This is one of the most common questions I get. Novice traders believe that there is a secret formula that spits out the magic number. If they just had that formula their trading performance will reach new heights. Some books suggest to never put more than 5% of your capital at risk on any single trade and to use a constant dollar allocation. Other books suggest that you should leverage your account to the maximum because your stops will contain the risk per position and that to generate worthy returns you need to go full tilt. It’s no wonder there is so much confusion on the topic. In this article I will answer this question completely and the next time someone asks, I will point them here.

Let’s start with the two extremes I mentioned above. A constant dollar allocation per trade is not the way to go. That might work for portfolio managers who are looking to diversify based on sector correlation, but we’re not investors, we are traders. Does a professional Black Jack player use the same dollar allocation when they bet? Of course not, they count cards and they increase their bet when the odds are in their favor. Market conditions are constantly changing and every minute of every day is different. Yesterday you might have had a trend day where you could ride your trades, size up and set high targets. Today you might have a light volume “inside day” with low probability conditions. Do you think you should be allocating the same amount of capital per trade in both situations? Trading an account “full tilt” might be the right thing to do in rare situations for some traders, but I’m not one of them. I will discuss this later.

Novice traders have been lead to believe that there is a mechanical answer to the position sizing question. “Never put more than 5% of your account into a trade and place your stop 2% below the current price and your target 4% above the current price”. This is complete garbage and you’ll find this canned solution in many books.

Novice traders have an unrealistic perception of trading and what it takes to be successful. “All I have to do is figure out how to read these wiggles and jiggles on a chart and I will make money.” Trading is one of the toughest ways to make a living. To become a “professional” at anything takes years so let me draw a comparison.

An NFL quarterback has to assess risk and reward constantly. Mr. Brady, “Do you always throw 10 yard passes?” No. Mr. Brady, “Do you always throw bombs?” No. "Mr. Brady, at what point do you decide that it is best to throw the ball out of bounds or to squeeze the ball into tight coverage and risk an interception?" Who are we playing? Are we winning? How much time is left? Is a defensive lineman in my face? Who is the receiver? Who is the corner? What are the field conditions? How well have I been throwing the ball? What down is it? Are we in field goal range? Are we backed up in our end zone? The list goes on and on. The answer is dependent on the situation and the situation changes constantly. Tom Brady is aware of all of these factors and he processes them in an instant. At the very end, he weighs the risks and rewards and that is when he makes a decision. Come on Pete, “Are you comparing trading to being an NFL quarterback?” Yes! It took Tom Brady a hundred thousand snaps to get to that level and it is going to take you thousands of trades to answer the position sizing question.

But where can I read about this? You can't find this in a book. Reading about Tom Brady is not going to make you a good QB. This you learn by doing. If you look at Hari's trade log, some days he trades a lot, sometimes he does not, sometimes he trades ITM options, sometimes he trades CDS, sometimes he trades straddles, sometimes he trades stock. Sometimes he trades size, sometimes he pares back. Experience is what gets you to that level and it takes years. Each person is different and they have their own style. This is also where the mental part of trading comes into play. Should I click the buy button or should I wait?

So my first goal in this article is to get you to think about position sizing in a different way. It is a continual assessment of risk and reward and size is dynamic (not static or mechanical). My answer is not going to be what you expected, so let’s get to it.

Most position sizing questions imply that everything would have been fine if they had just sized the trade properly. “I took the loss, but if I had correctly sized the trade, I could have taken the heat and it would have eventually turned into a winner. Pete, what is that magic number?”

The reality is that position sizing might not be the issue. If you are constantly getting stopped out, the issue is your trade selection.  If you have to ask what your position size should be, the answer is 1 share. Work on every other aspect of trading, get your win rate above 75% and during that process you will develop the awareness you need. Your position sizing and risk management will become automatic in time. The best risk management/position sizing method in the world is not going to make any difference if you are making poor trading decisions.

Position sizing is way, way… way down on the decision making flow chart. What is the market doing D1? What is market doing M5? What is the stock doing D1? What is the stock doing M5? This is the decision making process and these are the priorities! Your opinion for each of these and your confidence in your analysis takes you to the next step. That is where you start determining your game plan. If you can consistently get to this stage of the process your win rate will be greater than 75%. If you get the market right and the stock right, your odds of success increase dramatically. What is the trade duration? Should I trade stock or options? How will I size this? What is the likelihood I will make money? How much am I willing to risk? At what point will I know if I am wrong? These decisions are at the end of the process. The pros have done it so often they don't even think twice about it. They know based on the conditions what feels right and they know what has worked in the past.

This frustrates the hell out of novice traders and the pros who are trying to help them. The novice trader thinks that the pro is holding back. “There must be a method to their madness; they just don’t want to share it.” The pros get frustrated because this question comes up every @#$% day and the answer usually includes the phrase “it depends”. The novice trader feels cheated out of an answer. “There’s that old it depends answer again.”

“Hari, why did you trade 100 OTM SPY put lottos?” The answer: He evaluated all of the inputs and based on the information at that time; the risk and reward for the trade were favorable.

Pre-snap, Tom Brady does not know what he is going to do. He knows what he would like to do, but the right circumstances have to present themselves. He is aware of the macro backdrop (score, weather, down and distance and field position…) and he evaluates the post-snap coverage. Then he weighs the risk and reward and he makes his decision. He does not step up to the line of scrimmage and decide that he is going to throw a 20-yard pass no matter what. A 20-yard pass is a position sizing risk/reward decision. Maybe a screen pass to the running back is the best decision.

Position sizing and risk management are the final brush strokes. Should you trade size? Should you scale in? Should you trade stock? Should you sell bullish put spreads? Should you buy OTM calls? They are game time decisions and the trader processes all of the other information and then they make a decision. The end result is personal. For every professional trader who is presented with an identical set of circumstances, the position sizing and risk management answer is different. This is where you make it your own. It is also where the mental/emotional aspect of trading comes into play. Consequently, we can't answer your position sizing question. Only you can answer it.

If you start out with 1 share and you focus on getting your win rate to 75%, you can focus on the really important aspects of trading. Reading the market correctly and finding the best stocks is critically important. Until you get to that point, you are not ready to take on the mental aspects of trading and with 1 share you won’t have to. Getting your win rate to that 75% level is going to take time and there is no substitute for experience. You will be faced with many different situations and you will learn to identify changing conditions. You will learn when to adjust your positions and when to let them run. It might only be 1 share, but you are learning. These lessons will be very important when you start to increase your size. The lessons Tom Brady learned during High School football practices were important.

There is no way Hari would be able to flow in and out of all of positions the way he does if he did not have this skill. He would constantly be plugging in formulas to determine the “optimal size”. He doesn’t do this. He reads the market and the stock and he knows when to take a loss, when to enter a trade, when add to it and when to take profits.

Position sizing is the final brush stroke. Focus on everything that comes before it and when you get your win rate above 75% for a few consecutive months it will start to come naturally. You will experiment and you will define what feels right for you. This is when you start to define your trading personality.