**Author**: u/onewyse

**Posted on**: 2021-10-28

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/qhdoy9/profiting_from_time_spreads_calendar_spreads_over/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/qhdoy9/profiting_from_time_spreads_calendar_spreads_over/)

The only strategy i use over earnings is a time spread on stocks reporting earnings after the close or prior to the open on the following day so the trade is put on just prior to earnings being released. The  trade is meant to capture the difference between the IV crush and the time decay between this weeks options and next weeks options. The trade works best on stocks that generally dont beat expectation so harvesting premiums from the options can be profitable. Outsize moves up or down make it more difficult but can still be profitable. These time spreads are put on for a debit and that is your total risk but going to zero wont happen because of the structure of the trade.  Time Spreads are initiated on a stock reporting earnings tonight or the next morning and consists of selling this weeks at the money call (or put) and buying next weeks at the money call (or put)  for a debit. After earnings are released  the IV (implied volatility) will drain for both this weeks and next weeks options but the IV for this week is generally higher than next weeks. Additionally the time decay will impact this weeks option more than next weeks so more time decay will come out of this weeks options versus next weeks options. This will likely allow you to buy back this weeks option and sell next weeks options for a larger credit then the debit you paid for the time spread. Additionally next weeks options will retain some time value so the trade will always have some value regardless of the stock movement. Mt strategy is to place a an order to close out the trade prior to the open since the option premiums take time to have the IV come out of them and the bid ask spread can remain fairly wide giving you a good chance to get the trade filled for a profit. I try for 20% to 30% profit on the trade and may have to reduce it if i dont get filled.   This is the safest way i know to trade earnings that is directionally neutral  We are in the heart of earnings season so there are a lot of opportunities using time spreads right now

.