**Author**: u/HSeldon2020

**Posted on**: 2021-12-04

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/r91ih5/rsi_fibonacci_level_2_why_they_dont_work/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/r91ih5/rsi_fibonacci_level_2_why_they_dont_work/)

Every day I hear traders talk about these three indicators and every day I work to hopefully remove them from their charts.

For one thing - the method here works.  We prove it every single day with trades in real time that are consistently profitable.  One can also see how members progress after joining this community - it is truly remarkable.  I constantly watch as member after member goes from being on the verge of giving up trading altogether to now being on the verge of quitting their jobs to trade full-time.   

This method does not employ RSI, Level 2 or Fibonacci Indicators for a reason - they quite simply do not work.

Is their an argument to be made for Ichimoku Clouds or Bollinger Band?  Sure - both have their uses.  Are there certain Oscillators that can provide additional information that helps your decision-making?  Again, yes.   However, until you have mastered the core method taught here, and start becoming consistently profitable, I would not recommend using them.  Once you are consistently bringing in a profit, and by that I mean, you can depend on it - week after week - than I absolutely suggest you start looking at ways to refine and improve your approach.  But not before that point.

However, at no point will RSI, Fibonacci Indicators or Level 2 data be of use to you.  And yes, I speak in absolute terms for a reason - so miss me with your anecdotal examples.  And yes, you might see  larger institutions firms, or even prop firms use some combination of these three metric - and there is a reason for that.  They can afford to purchase the *real* data that gets fed into sophisticated algorithms, which take advantage of your predictable trading decisions.  We, however, are focused on the uses for the *Retail Trader* and the average *Retail Trader* is not spending a small fortune buying the information from brokers, and then giving that information to their team of data scientists.  At least not any Retail Trader I know.

Indicators need to be dependable or they need to convey accurate information.  Moving averages, for example, are simply conveying information - an average price point over a set period of time.  That is useful to know.  The True Strength Index, which is an oscillator, looks at price changes compared to price average to create a metric of momentum - this is a consistent indicator, albeit a lagging one.  Some are more useful than others, but they are consistent and do provide information.

Here are the basic problems with the three:

**RSI**:   This is almost a counter-trend indicator - the idea being that when a stock is over-sold, it is about to bounce up, and conversely when it is over-bought it will soon sell-off.  Off the bat you are trying to justify picking tops and/or bottoms, which is generally a very bad idea when trading.  However, the main issue here is that stocks can stay "over-bought" or "over-sold" for a long time.  Look at **PYPL** \- that stock has been in over-sold territory for weeks now.   Back when it was at $230, the RSI of the stock was below 20 - it has since dropped another $40.   Yes, most stocks eventually bounce, but the question is - when? RSI does not answer that question, and thus at best is useless, and at worst has you entering a trade and then watching the trend continue against you.

**Fibonacci Indicators:** 161.8, 61.8, 31.2 - on and on ....61.8% being the magic number. 0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21...on and on and on...yes, they appear in nature, and yes people put them on their charts and some trade off those levels (which become a self-fulfilling prophecy - which most of technical analysis relies on), but in reality they are meaningless when it comes to a stock's price action.  Look at any chart and put Fib Retracement lines on it - you will see sometimes the price hits those lines and pulls back, and other times it ignores them.  Now put five random horizontal lines on your chart, spread evenly apart - and guess what? You will see sometimes the price hits your random lines, and pulls back, and sometimes it does not.   There are just enough traders out there using Fib levels to make them slightly beat out your random ones, but not by much.  What happens is people ignore all the times these lines don't work, and focus on the instances where they do - creating a Survivorship Bias.   They are not *dependable or consistent*.  Sometimes they seem to work and others they don't.  When they don't a trader that uses Fib levels will find every excuse in the book for why the Fib Level was ignored, but the reality is there is no consistent way to know when they will work and when they won't - most likely because they are not much better than random chance.

**Level II:** Everyone's favorite buzz words to throw around, "I am looking at the tape...."  Or even better is when a trader says, "I have a friend who has access to Dark Pool data" - sure you do buddy, sure you do.  In theory, Level II data should give a trader valuable information about where levels of support and resistance lie based on the orders coming in, and the actions taken by the Market Makers.  You can see where people are hitting the ask (like Sweeps for stocks) and where the large orders are coming in and from whom.  The reality is that Level II data is *filled with manipulation*.  False orders, orders that are spread across prices and times.  Hiding the real size of their orders and then updating them after you already made the wrong decision.   Market Makers are constantly using different tactics to trap retail traders by introducing false signals into the Level II data.  Think you can identify those tactics?  You can't.  *That is their job*.  And they are good at it.  The real information that you need is on the charts - that will tell you what really is happening and if you read the story correctly, you will see where it is going.  When trying to identify and understand a story being told there is nothing worse than an *unreliable narrator* and that is exactly what Level II data is, an *unreliable narrator.*

I always argue for simplicity - understand the market (**SPY**), understand the stock in relation to the market, and then chose the best instrument (stock, options, spreads, futures) to exploit your edge.  There are some indicators that help you in that process (moving averages - simple and exponential, relative strength against SPY, volume and relative volume, the 1OP, and VWAP), and there are many scanners that can filter out stocks which qualify for the method you are using.   

Adding indicators generally does not help as you learn to master these skills, but adding **RSI, Fibonacci** and/or **Level II** very often winds up doing the opposite - hurting your chances.

&#x200B;

Best, H.S.