**Author**: u/Isidore94

**Posted on**: 2024-04-28

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/1cf823y/trading_with_a_full_time_job/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/1cf823y/trading_with_a_full_time_job/)

 I, like many of you, have a full time job. I work to sustain myself while I transition to becoming a professional day trader. I work about 45 hours a week at my job, and pull in another 50 hours a week on average with day trading. Throw in 56 hours a week of sleep, and that leaves just 17 hours a week for non-trading/work/sleep related activities. That's not a lot, especially those with other responsibilities. Here are some tips I have collected over the last year doing this that I employ every week to help me be as efficient as possible with my time, and to also help prevent burnout. 

1. Be prepared to do the work. All of this next advice is contingent on you actually sitting through the market session 4-5 days a week in its entirety + spending time during the weekend to review and prepare for the following week. That's not to say you can't make this work doing less than this. It's my belief the 2 year target outlined in the wiki is contingent on somebody putting in at MINIMUM 40 hours a week. If you cannot commit to this, it would be appropriate to expect a 3-4 year time frame. I have a bonus tip at the end for those of you who work during market sessions but trade for a few hours on their breaks/any time off during the day.
2. Have at least 1 thing you can do/look forward to that isn't market related. For some people that's a round of golf, for others it's grabbing lunch at their favourite spot. Whatever it is, have something you can do. When you're at this everyday of the week AND you work a second job, you need some way to let off steam. I lasted about 9 months before requiring some extraneous activity. I would even go so far as to say if you are working a full time job and trading, and the market is pure LPTE chop, and you have set your alerts and have your watchlists, go out and do this activity. Or go out for a walk. The market isn't going anywhere and the potential performance gains from resetting your mind will probably outweigh the gains you will make sitting in front of an LPTE market and finding a trade you can take at small size. 
3. Spend an hour or two each weekend thinking about how you can optimize your routine. I have recently incorporated TradingView into my trading arsenal. With it I am able to have AVWAP points on the 45 day high and low automatically generated on EVERY ticker. I have also made custom scripts to automatically draw horizontal lines on every high volume candle. I also have experimented with some variant of cloud lines and had another member help me make a script to automatically plot these levels. Doing this saves me a lot of time. That's time during the market I am not wasting, and time during the weekend I don't spend drawing horizontal levels. Instead I evaluate the efficacy of the lines and decide which ones to act on. Take some time to learn your charting platform and find ways to do things quicker. I have a number of videos on this topic alone.
4. Speaking of the weekend: You want your weekend prep to be extensive but consolidated at the same time. You don't want to be spending 8 hours a day on it. You will burn out doing this. Instead have a checklist of items and focus on getting through it. I review TX week ahead and plot all important events on my daily spreadsheet. Then I review my watchlists and keep them all up to date. Then I scan for potential plays based on a few OS custom scans. I can get all my prep done in a week that completely sets me up for the next week in under 4 hours. Easily. Which leads me into my next two tips.
5. Do your prep for the next day DURING the market. After 2pm EST I stop looking for day trades and focus more on swings. At this point I will go through all my watchlists and alerts. I will go through all my scans and sort all my stocks into the appropriate watchlists. I will review tomorrow morning's news events to make sure overnight swings are not walking into major news volatility. I do it all during the market so when the market closes and I go to my day job for 9 hours, I can come home and know I am already ready for tomorrow. 
6. Watch my video on watchlists. It's the most recent one on my Youtube. I have not discovered a more efficient way to categorize stocks and to ultimately keep my finger on the pulse of the market. For those who have watched it: When I start to focus on swings, I merely have to filter for all stocks that are above their previous day high and above VWAP in the Breakout and Pullback watchlists to know what are the best swings to take overnight. And I am updating these lists just prior to looking for overnight swing trades. The first week or two of using it is a royal pain in the butt, but once it's set up you generally have an idea of the status of every single tradable stock, or you have an alert set on it. 
7. This is not advice but just my review of TC2000 plat service. I will say, it's expensive and probably a tad overpriced. However I find it to be worth it. I get 5 real time scans that I can use on various TC2000 scanners that effectively scan my watchlists for specific things. I can also monitor for volume pops. Dan recently posted a TC2000 layout that includes something like that. I also get 1000 alerts. I set alerts on basically every single stock, and sometimes 2-3. Having these many alerts basically gives me a full view on the market. It's tough to set up but once it's up and running it's extremely efficient when combined with the real time scan. 
8. More of a bonus tip. If you MUST trade at work for whatever reason, do it out of a watchlist. Unless you can run your entire complement of trading software at work, focus on a small basket of stocks. Use TradingView and watch the market. If the market is setting up for a trade, then check your basket of stocks. If nothing in that basket of stocks is set up for a trade, don't trade. Trading at work is a great way to mess yourself up mindset wise because you will make excuses for yourself. Instead, give yourself the best chance of success by having a handful of elite level D1s. 
9. Learn BPS. I am mostly a shares trader, and options are still not my preference. If youre going to learn any option strategy however, learn BPS. They are extremely time efficient. They are also efficient brainpower wise (is that even a word?). Learn them. Master them. They are your greatest friend both for pro traders, but especially us with full time jobs on the side who miss some market sessions every year due to it. You can manage these at work. You simply set a few alerts for each of them for when to take profit or when to take the loss. Otherwise you ignore them. 
10. WATCH PETES VIDEOS. Every week. I do not care how busy you are. Pete incorporates fundamentals and technical into each video. He gives you his market outlook. He gives you some picks. You cannot get a better return on your time than that, it is impossible, especially if you listen at 1.5x-2x speed. If you do nothing else from these tips, do this. Disclaimer: I am a mod at OneOption so yes there's potential for bias. But I have been doing this for over a year now. 