**Author**: u/onewyse

**Posted on**: 2021-12-09

Original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/rc6mfs/traditional_technical_analysis_is_becoming_less/](https://www.reddit.com/r/RealDayTrading/comments/rc6mfs/traditional_technical_analysis_is_becoming_less/)

Ever had what looks like a perfect technical setup and it starts to work then fails miserably. You do another, same result then a third and bang, it works like a charm. Ever wonder why some work so beautifully and others fail. As far as your technicals were concerned they lined up perfectly, what happened. I believe traditional technical analysis is failing more often and not producing the results it has in the pass for one main reason. Institutions (hedge funds big banks etc) is controlling more and more of the market and with their algos they can push stock price wherever they want regardless of fib levels, MACD crossovers, ichimoku cloud and on and on. These institutions have access to retail traders habits and how they are likely to trade at certain levels and they can take advantage of that. Because of this, when a technical setup is occurring it is critical to know if the institutions are buying and you are joining them or if you are joining a setup being created by retail traders that institutions are waiting to pounce on and take the money from the retail traders.  This is why counter trend trading is so risky, the institutions (thru algos) have created the trend and backed off. In come the retail traders picking the top or the bottom with no institutional participation. The stock briefly goes in your direction, then here come the institutions creating a continuation of the original trend and the retail traders are left holding the bag. One thing that helps to see if institutions are driving the trend is looking at relative strength and weakness, most times consistent relative strength or weakness is a sign of institutional buying or selling. This is why trading stocks with relative strength or weakness is so important. It helps but it is not enough. There needs to be better ways to identify and  quantify the level of institutional participation. Looking at volume or time and sales on your current time frame is not enough, it needs to be more in depth with multiple time frames in sync with each other. By the way, scalping works well against this because of the short time of the trade, however, scalping is probably the most difficult strategy for newer and even somewhat experienced traders to  trade successfully.  I will go into this further on another post